README.md, before:

# genshinbot

A Discord bot built with Python, utilizing containerization for deployment and GitHub Actions for CI/CD.

## Prerequisites

- Docker and Docker Compose
- A Discord Bot Token
- Access to a server for deployment

## Environment Variables and Secrets

### Discord Bot Token
The bot requires a Discord Bot Token to function. To obtain one:
1. Go to [Discord Developer Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications)
2. Create a new application
3. Navigate to the "Bot" section
4. Create a bot and copy the token

### GitHub Actions Secrets
The following secrets need to be configured in your GitHub repository secrets for deployment:

| Secret Name | Description | Example |
|------------|-------------|----------|
| `SERVER_HOST_IP` | IP address of the deployment server | `123.456.789.0` |
| `SERVER_HOST_USER` | SSH user for the deployment server | `deploy-user` |
| `SERVER_HOST_SSH_PRIVATE_KEY` | SSH private key for server authentication | `-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----\n...` |
| `DOCKER_USERNAME` | Docker Hub username for Docker registry | `docker-username` |
| `DOCKER_PASSWORD` | Docker Hub password for Docker registry | `docker-password` |

The CI/CD uses two environments (production & development) with a single environment variable `TOKEN`. One token for each bot environment so that you can make changes to the dev bot before pushing to prod.

## Local Development

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/bkan0n/genshinbot.git
``` 

2. Run the bot using Docker Compose. Ensure your TOKEN env var is set prior to running this command.
```bash
docker compose up --build
``` 

## Code Style and Formatting

This project uses [Ruff](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff) for code checking and formatting. Before submitting any pull request:

1. Install Ruff:
```bash
pip install ruff
``` 

2. Run Ruff check:
```bash
ruff check .
``` 

3. Run Ruff format:
```bash
ruff format .
``` 

All pull requests must pass Ruff checks before they can be merged. The GitHub Actions workflow will automatically verify this.

## Deployment Process

The project uses GitHub Actions for automated deployment. Here's how it works:

1. Create a Pull Request with your changes
2. GitHub Actions will run automated checks including Ruff
3. All checks must pass before merging is allowed
4. The CODEOWNER, in this case [@tylovejoy](https://www.github.com/tylovejoy), has the ability to run `/dev-deploy` in the PR comments to verify the changes work without issue. If you fork this and want to self-host, you will need to change the github login name values in the deploy.yml workflow file (`github.event.comment.user.login == 'xxxxxx'`).

### Deployment Requirements

1. The deployment server must have:
   - Docker installed
   - Docker Compose installed
   - Git installed
   - SSH access configured

2. Proper SSH key configuration:
   - Generate an SSH key pair for deployment
   - Add the public key to the server's `authorized_keys`
   - Add the private key to GitHub Secrets as `SERVER_HOST_SSH_PRIVATE_KEY`

## Security Notes

- Never commit sensitive information or tokens to the repository
- Always use environment variables for sensitive data
- Regularly rotate SSH keys and access tokens
- Keep the deployment server's software updated
- Monitor server and bot logs for unusual activity

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a new branch for your feature
3. Make your changes
4. Ensure code passes Ruff checks and formatting
5. Submit a Pull Request
6. Ensure all checks pass before requesting review

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
```
MIT License
Copyright (c) 2025 Bad Kids Anonymous
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
``` 

## Support

For issues and feature requests, please use the GitHub Issues section of this repository.

Commit message:

Noelle rename (#26)
* chore: rename project to noelle instead of genshinbot

* chore: formatting and fixing typing/imports

* chore: correct readme and add dev dependencies. also use .env file for local compose file

README.md, after:

# Noelle

Noelle is a Discord bot created for the @HMC GamerBr YouTube Community revolving around the game Genshin Impact.

## Prerequisites

- Docker and Docker Compose
- A Discord Bot Token
- Python 3.13 (for local development)
- Access to a server for deployment (if self-hosting on a server and using GitHub Actions as CI/CD)

## Environment Variables and Secrets

### Discord Bot Token
The bot requires a Discord Bot Token to function. To obtain one:
1. Go to [Discord Developer Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications)
2. Create a new application
3. Navigate to the "Bot" section
4. Create a bot and copy the token

### GitHub Actions Secrets
The following secrets need to be configured in your GitHub repository secrets for deployment:

| Secret Name | Description | Example |
|------------|-------------|----------|
| `SERVER_HOST_IP` | IP address of the deployment server | `123.456.789.0` |
| `SERVER_HOST_USER` | SSH user for the deployment server | `deploy-user` |
| `SERVER_HOST_SSH_PRIVATE_KEY` | SSH private key for server authentication | `-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----\n...` |
| `DOCKER_USERNAME` | Docker Hub username for Docker registry | `docker-username` |
| `DOCKER_PASSWORD` | Docker Hub password for Docker registry | `docker-password` |

The CI/CD uses two environments (production & development) with a single environment variable `TOKEN`. One token for each bot environment so that you can make changes to the dev bot before pushing to prod.

## Local Development

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/bkan0n/genshinbot.git
``` 

2. Create an `.env` file with your bot's token in your cloned repo. `.env` is included in .gitignore so it won't be published but always be sure and check that you aren't committing any secrets to GitHub.
```.env
TOKEN=xxxxxxxxxxx
```

3. Ensure your Python virtual environment is set up.
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

4. Run the bot using Docker Compose. Ensure your TOKEN env var is set before running this command. 
   - You will receive a `"The \"TOKEN\" variable is not set. Defaulting to a blank string." warning if the environment variable is improperly set.`
```bash
# The docker-compose.local.yml looks for the .env file and injects automatically.
docker compose -f docker-compose.local.yml up --build

# Alternatively, you can run the bot via Python, but you'll need to inject the environment variables from .env manually.
python3 main.py
```

## Code Style and Formatting

This project uses [Ruff](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff) for code checking and formatting. Before submitting any pull request:

1. Install Ruff and other dev dependencies:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.dev.txt
``` 

2. Run Ruff check:
```bash
ruff check .
``` 

3. Run Ruff format:
```bash
ruff format .
``` 

All pull requests must pass Ruff checks before they can be merged. The GitHub Actions workflow will automatically verify this.

## Deployment Process

The project uses GitHub Actions for automated deployment. Here's how it works:

1. Create a Pull Request with your changes
2. GitHub Actions will run automated checks including Ruff
3. All checks must pass before merging is allowed
4. The CODEOWNER, in this case [@tylovejoy](https://www.github.com/tylovejoy), has the ability to run `/dev-deploy` in the PR comments to verify the changes work without issue. 
   - If you fork this and want to self-host, you will need to change the github login name values in the deploy.yml workflow file (`github.event.comment.user.login == 'xxxxxx'`).
   - Be sure to change the .github/CODEOWNERS file as well.
### Deployment Requirements

1. The deployment server must have:
   - Docker installed
   - Docker Compose installed
   - Git installed
   - SSH access configured

2. Proper SSH key configuration:
   - Generate an SSH key pair for deployment
   - Add the public key to the server's `authorized_keys`
   - Add the private key to GitHub Secrets as `SERVER_HOST_SSH_PRIVATE_KEY`

## Security Notes

- Never commit sensitive information or tokens to the repository
- Always use environment variables for sensitive data
- Regularly rotate SSH keys and access tokens
- Keep the deployment server's software updated
- Monitor server and bot logs for unusual activity

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a new branch for your feature
3. Make your changes
4. Ensure code passes Ruff checks and formatting
5. Submit a Pull Request
6. Ensure all checks pass before requesting review

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
```
MIT License
Copyright (c) 2025 Bad Kids Anonymous
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
``` 

## Support

For issues and feature requests, please use the GitHub Issues section of this repository.
